---
layout: post
title: "Week 9"
date: 2024-02-22
description: "Puzzle: Find the Brilliant Move - Game: The two Gerhards (1993)"
comments: false
---

## Puzzle of the Week

Chloe Gaw is a talented young chess player from the United States. She was born in 2009 and currently holds a FIDE rating of 192812. Chloe has been making waves in the chess world with her impressive performances. 

This tactics puzzle is from her game at NY Presidents Day GM-IM Presidents Day Invitational IM C Scheveningen tournament where Chloe faced Alisher Podavonov, The tournament was held in New York from February 15, 2024, to February 19, 2024. 

In case you need it, **Fritz** is giving you hints.

<iframe src="https://fritz.chessbase.com?fen=2b2r2/2r1qp2/p5k1/6p1/4p3/2P1QN2/P4RPP/5RK1 w - - 0 2 b - - 0 1" style="width:760px;height:480px"></iframe>


## Game of the Week

The GER-chT Seniors 02nd chess tournament in 1993 took place in Schwäbisch Gmünd, a charming town in the heart of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Schwäbisch Gmünd is known for its unique blend of tradition, history, creativity, and innovation. The town lies on the Rems River, east of Stuttgart and just north of the Swabian Alp. It has a rich history, including being a free imperial city from 1268 to 1802. Notably, Schwäbisch Gmünd is renowned for its precious metalworking, especially gold and silver craftsmanship. The late Romanesque Johanneskirche and the 14th-century Gothic cathedral of the Holy Cross are historic landmarks in the city. If you ever visit, don’t miss the opportunity to explore its diverse architecture and cultural offerings!

Two Gerhards played an interesteing game, Gerhard Apfler and Gerhard Knop. I don't know much about the players other then the internet, but during a game analysis I found this one and it has some interesting uncommon line, twist and tweaks.

<iframe style='border: 0;' width='760px' height='480px' src='https://share.chessbase.com/SharedGames/frame/?p=u0VGAee0L5lcEjG6Vj/T+pwMzi1HXIAw/zUAJ4aryvg21YxKlffXfWUwtV3ph/wu'></iframe>

