---
layout: post
title: "Week 4"
date: 2024-01-22
description: "Puzzle: August Julius Mendheim - Game: Marshall - Burn"
comments: false
---


## Puzzle of the Week

August Julius Mendheim (c. 1781 – † 25 August 1836) was a German chess player and composer. He is considered the first Prussian chess master and forerunner of the Berlin Chess School.
The interesting position is two folded: White can mate in five if White to move and so can Black.

<div class="cbdiagram"
data-size="400"
data-fen="8/k2p1N2/1p6/8/3nr3/N4nP1/4rPK1/R1R5 b - - 0 1"
data-legend="Black to Move - Mate in Five."
data-hint="Move your Rook"
data-moves="1.Txf2 2.Kxf2 Te2 3.Kf1 Sd2 4.Kg1 Sd4-f3+ 5.Kh1 Th2"
data-solution="e2f2">
</div>

## Game of the Week
> Marshall - Burn-
Paris

Knaurs Schachbuch - Vier Jahrhunderte Schach

The Paris 1900 chess tournament was an event held in conjunction with the Exposition Universelle (1900), one of the world's most notable fairs or exhibitions and designated a "World Exposition" by the Bureau of International Expositions. 

The tournament of 1900 was played in the Grand Cercle, Paris, from May 17 to June 20, 1900

While this could be just another tournmanet, one notable game stood out due the comments of one player, Mr. Marshall. Marshall's "game report" of his famous match against the English Amos Burn (see annotations) would be grist to the mill of those who claim that chess is not a sport.

This short game was humorously commented on by Marshall himself in his book "50 Years at the Chessboard": 
>*I attribute my victory in this game to the fact that my partner did not find time to smoke his pipe during the game.*

The Englishman Amos Burn was a chess player of the old style who loved a long and tough fight in closed-type positions above all else. He settled down at the board just too much at home and studied the possibilities persistently and patiently, always with the inevitable pipe between his teeth.

<div class="cbreplay">
[Event "Paris"]
[Site "Paris"]
[Date "1900.??.??"]
[Round "14"]
[White "Marshall, Frank James"]
[Black "Burn, Amos"]
[Result "1-0"]
[ECO "D55"]
[Annotator "ChessBase"]
[PlyCount "33"]
[EventDate "1900.??.??"]
[EventType "tourn"]
[EventRounds "16"]
[EventCountry "FRA"]
[SourceTitle "100 Jahre Schach"]
[Source "ChessBase"]
[SourceDate "2000.04.19"]
[SourceVersion "1"]
[SourceVersionDate "2000.04.19"]
[SourceQuality "1"]

1. d4 d5 2. c4 {As I made my second move, Burn dug tobacco and pipe out of his pockets.} e6 3. Nc3 Nf6 4. Bg5 Be7 {These moves didn't take too much time, and Burn began making preparations after finding the pipe cleaner.} 5. e3 O-O 6. Nf3 b6 7. Bd3 Bb7 8. cxd5 exd5 {Here he prepared to fill the pipe with tobacco. I sped up my strokes."} 9. Bxf6 Bxf6 10. h4 {This forced him to think and temporarily leave his pipe alone. The threat 11.L:h7+ K:h7 12.Ng5+ is known as the Pillsbury Attack.} g6 $2 ({It turned out that after} 10... c5 {the mentioned Pillsbury attack doesn't work at all:} 11. Bxh7+ Kxh7 12. Ng5+ Kh6 13. Qc2 g6 14. h5 Kxg5 15. f4+ Kh6 16. hxg6+ Kg7 17. Rh7+ Kg8 18. O-O-O Bg7 19. Rdh1 Qf6 20. gxf7+ Rxf7 21. g4 cxd4 22. g5 Qf5 23. Rxg7+ Kxg7 24. Qh2 Rf8 {0-1 Teschner,R-Spassky,B/Riga 1959/MCD (78) White didn't have enough compensation.}) 11. h5 Re8 (11... c5 12. hxg6 hxg6 13. Ne5 Bxe5 14. dxe5 Qg5 15. Qf3 Qxe5 16. O-O-O Kg7 17. Qh3 Nc6 18. f4 Qe6 19. Qh6+ Kf6 20. Qg5+ Kg7 21. f5 Qe5 22. f6+ Qxf6 23. Qh6+ {1-0 Marshall,F-Marco,G/Paris 1900/HCL (23)}) 12. hxg6 hxg6 {Then the search for matches began.} 13. Qc2 Bg7 $2 (13... Kg7 14. O-O-O $16) 14. Bxg6 $1 $18 fxg6 {Burn lit a match, but was visibly nervous. It burned his fingers and went out.} 15. Qxg6 Nd7 {Another match had to be used.} 16. Ng5 Qf6 {He was finally able to get the pipe going, but there was no time left to smoke it.} 17. Rh8+ $1 {Poor Burn! I couldn't shake the feeling that I had really cheated him. If he had managed to light the pipe properly, perhaps everything would have turned out completely differently. Burn took defeat extremely calmly and we shook hands. After that the pipe stopped working again.} 1-0

</div>

