---
layout: post
title: "Week 8"
date: 2024-02-19
description: "Puzzle: Black to Checkmate Game: from the German Bundesliga 2024"
---

## Puzzle of the Week

From the European Women Rapid 2023 were Alicja Sliwicka played Sarasadat Khademalsharieh. Alicja Śliwicka is a Polish chess player who received the FIDE title of Woman International Master (WIM) in 2018. Sarasadat Khademalsharieh, also known as Sara Khadem, is an Iranian-Spanish chess player who holds the titles of International Master (IM) and Woman Grandmaster (WGM). Her FIDE rating as of January 2024 is 2486.

Khademalsharieh has a rich chess career and in this puzzle you will be asked to find the brilliant move she found as Black.

In case you need it, **Fritz** is giving you hints.

<iframe src="https://fritz.chessbase.com?fen=1r6/2pp1p1k/2p2qnp/3rB1pQ/p1b5/P1P1R3/1P3PPP/1B2R1K1 b - - 0 1" style="width:760px;height:480px"></iframe>


## Game of the Week

David Anton Guijarro was born in Murcia, grew up in Madrid, and started playing chess at the age of 5 under the guidance of his father. He studied mathematics at the Complutense University of Madrid, though he has now devoted himself to chess full-time under the training of International Master David Martínez. He is married to his wife, Nicky Paige Antón.

His oponent Vojtech Plat most played openings with white pieces include Alapin Sicilian Defense, Sicilian Defense: Delayed Alapin Variation, Slav Defense, Sicilian Defense: Chekhover Variation, and Catalan Opening.
With black pieces, he often plays Pirc Defense.

Enjoy the ingenious play of Guijarro!

<iframe style='border: 0;' width='760px' height='480px' src='https://share.chessbase.com/SharedGames/frame/?p=iPImaMJiITSZmPjnD6slp0enj1YE2su4PnfWG/gkX42mOaYv6n5xpY1znu39Dyj7'></iframe>

